# PyRosetta Software Non-Commercial License Agreement

The PyRosetta software has been developed by the contributing researchers and institutions of the Rosetta Commons ("Developers") and published/made publicly available via Github through the University of Washington ("UW") for noncommercial, non-profit use.  This publication status does not constitute a waiver of copyright, patent, or other intellectual property rights. Licensing of the Software is managed by the University of Washington ("UW") For more information about the Rosetta Commons, please see www.rosettacommons.org. If you wish to use the Software for any commercial purposes, including fee-based service projects, you will need to execute a separate licensing agreement with the UW by contacting license@uw.edu and pay a fee.

The Software was developed through support of a variety of funding sources, including the National Institutes of Health, Human Frontier Science Program Grant, National Science Foundation, Office of Naval Research, Packard Foundation, the Damon Runyon Cancer Research Foundation, Jane Coffin Childs Foundation, Los Alamos National Lab, Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, European Research Council, Israel Science Foundation, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, and the Howard Hughes Medical Institute (HHMI).

"Non-Commercial User" means 1) employees of not-for-profit research institutions, government laboratories, and universities conducting research excluding (a) commercial service; or (b) contract research or services for a for profit company where the intellectual property resulting from such research or service is owned by the for-profit company , and 2) individuals excluding (a) any use by, for, or on behalf of an entity organized for profit; or (b) any use intended for or directed toward commercial advantage or monetary compensation.

"Software" includes both source and executable copies of the PyRosetta software as distributed by the Rosetta Commons.  Use of Software requires a valid concurrent non-commercial license of Rosetta. 

UW and the Developers allow Non-Commercial Users ("You") to run, display, copy, use and modify Software free of charge solely for internal Non-Commercial purposes, subject to the following conditions:

1. You agree to refer other Non-Commercial Users interested in the Software to Github to download the Software to ensure quality control, and so that they agree to these license terms. You may fork official Rosetta Commons repositories and make modifications to the source code in such forks on the same version control platform on which those official repositories are hosted. 

2. You agree to acknowledge the contribution of the Developers and the Software make to your research, and cite appropriate references about the Software in your publications (see CITING_ROSETTA.md).

3. If You wish to use Software for any commercial purposes, including fee-based service projects, you will need to execute a separate commercial license agreement with the UW and pay a fee. In that case, please contact: license@uw.edu.  Similarly, You agree to refer potential commercial users of the Software to UW (license@uw.edu) so they can execute a commercial license for the Software.

4. You retain in Software and any modifications to Software, all copyright, trademark, or other notices pertaining to Software as provided by UW and Developers.

5. If you institute litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Software or any part of the Software constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any license granted to you herein shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.

6. You acknowledge that the Developers, UW and its licensees may develop modifications to Software that may be substantially similar to Your modifications of Software, and that the Developers, UW and its licensees shall not be constrained in any way by You in Developer's, UW's or its licensees' use or management of such modifications. You acknowledge the right of the Developers and UW to prepare and publish modifications to Software that may be substantially similar or functionally equivalent to Your modifications and improvements, and if You obtain patent protection for any modification or improvement to Software You agree not to allege or enjoin infringement of Your patent by the Developers, UW or by any of UW's licensees obtaining modifications or improvements to Software from the UW or the Developers.

7. You agree to comply with all applicable laws, and shall not take any action that would cause UW to be in violation of any applicable export control or OFAC sanctions law or regulation.  You shall not use the Software in the design, development, production, operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of chemical or biological weapons.  

8. Any risk associated with using the Software at your institution is with You and Your institution. Software is experimental in nature and is made available as a research courtesy "AS IS," without obligation by UW or Developers to provide accompanying services or support.

9. UW, in sole discretion may terminate this license agreement upon notice i) if You are in material breach of this license agreement or ii) fail to comply with applicable U.S. or other laws including but not limited to U.S. export control or OFAC sanctions laws. The termination shall be effective 30 days from the date of notice. If the specified breach is cured before the effective date of termination the license agreement shall not be terminated and the notice thereof shall have no effect.

10. UW AND THE DEVELOPERS EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL WARRANTIES REGARDING THE SOFTWARE, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES PERTAINING TO NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UW OR DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
