## AUTHOR AND DATE
Author: Amanda Loshbaugh (aloshbau@gmail.com)
PI: Tanja Kortemme (kortemme@cgl.ucsf.edu)
Date test first added to Scientific Benchmark: February 2019

## PURPOSE OF THE TEST
#### What does the benchmark test and why?
Evolutionary sequence alignments for seven naturally occurring protein families that each bind a specific cofactor the Cofactor binding site dataset, which is made up of sequence profiles resulting from natural evolution evolutionary sequence profiles of cofactor-binding protein families has the advantage of clearly identifying consensus binding positions. 


## BENCHMARK DATASET
#### How many proteins are in the set?
#### What dataset are you using? Is it published? If yes, please add a citation.
#### What are the input files? How were the they created?

The cofactor binding sites dataset is comprised of seven separate protein families, with the conserved small molecule cofactor binding sites of each family. This dataset is described in detail elsewhere.[3]

In brief, each protein family satisfies three criteria: 1) there exists "at least one representative crystal structure bound to the cognate ligand to use as input for design, 2) the protein family has a large number of diverse sequences such that the binding site is not completely conserved, and 3) all members of the protein family are capable of binding the cognate ligand using the same ligand binding site. Ligand binding positions are defined as any amino acid position with a side-chain heavy atom within 6&Aring; of any heavy atom in the co-factor ligand. Natural sequences of these binding sites were obtained using the protein family alignment from Pfam and filtered to remove all redundant sequences.[3]

This dataset that does not involve experimental characterization of binding affinity. Because natural proteins are under many different selection pressures, the affinity of natural sites is usually just good enough rather than as tight as possible.

## PROTOCOL
#### State and briefly describe the protocol.
#### Is there a publication that describes the protocol?
#### How many CPU hours does this benchmark take approximately?

The CoupledMoves protocol is described <a href="https://www.rosettacommons.org/docs/wiki/coupled-moves">here</a>.

## PERFORMANCE METRICS
#### What are the performance metrics used and why were they chosen?
#### How do you define a pass/fail for this test?
#### How were any cutoffs defined?

Tolerated sequence space, for each position in a given protein, describes the diversity of amino acids compatible with the protein's function,[2] and is calculated from the known natural sequence profiles. We quantify Rosetta's ability to recapitulate the natural sequence profiles at the defined ligand binding positions by two metrics, position profile similarity (PPS) and rank top (RT). Metrics are calculated per position. 

PPS measures the similarity of the distribution of amino acid frequencies between two datasets, the known profile (from natural sequence alignment) and the profile generated by Rosetta design. 

RT measures the rank, in the design profile, of the amino acid most frequently observed in the known profile.

When benchmarked on this dataset in [1], CoupledMoves achieved PPS with median ~0.72 on this dataset, and 25th percentile ~0.56. Accordingly, thresholds of 0.7 (green) and 0.5 (blue) are chosen for the median and 25th percentile in this test.

## KEY RESULTS
#### What is the baseline to compare things to - experimental data or a previous Rosetta protocol?
#### Describe outliers in the dataset. 

This benchmark describes the ability of the Rosetta protocol CoupledMoves to recapitulate sequence profiles of naturally evolved proteins.

#### DEFINITIONS AND COMMENTS
#### State anything you think is important for someone else to replicate your results. 

## LIMITATIONS
#### What are the limitations of the benchmark? Consider dataset, quality measures, protocol etc. 
#### How could the benchmark be improved?
#### What goals should be hit to make this a "good" benchmark?

Sequence profiles in the cofactor dataset result from natural evolution, rather than experimental screening. Natural evolution includes additional selection pressures beyond affinity (function, stability, kinetics), the full consequences of which are difficult to categorize and quantify, meaning that the sequence profiles for natural binding site positions may be influenced by factors beyond those modeled by Rosetta. However, using evolutionary sequence profiles of cofactor-binding protein families has the advantage of clearly identifying consensus binding positions.

More data, in the form of more natural ligand binding protein families, would improve this benchmark.

## REFERENCES
[1] Loshbaugh, A. L. and Kortemme, T. Comparison of Rosetta flexible-backbone computational protein design methods on binding interactions. Manuscript in preparation. 2019.
[2] Humphris, E.L. and T. Kortemme, Prediction of protein-protein interface sequence diversity using flexible backbone computational protein design. Structure, 2008. 16(12): p. 1777-88.
[3] Ollikainen, N., de Jong, R. M., and Kortemme, T. Coupling protein side-chain and backbone flexibility improves the re-design of protein-ligand specificity. PLoS Comput Biol, 2015.
